---
layout: post
title: My Goals as a Bloc Student
---
My main over arching goal as a Bloc student is to learn full stack web development so I can become a great web developer, get a full-time job as a web developer and some day become a self-employed developer. That may be my main over arching goal but my under lying goals are mastering debugging, becoming a decent Front-End developer, mastering the back-end, and mastering problem-solving.

## Mastering Debugging
I’ve discovered that using console.log() is a very useful tool when it comes to developing especially when you encounter a problem in your code and have to debug. I’m still learning how to debug but console.log() is a great line of code because you can use it to log code to the console and find where the bug is because sometimes your code doesn’t do what you think it is doing and console logging pieces of your code helps you discover those aspects of your code.

## Becoming a Decent Front-End Developer
The front-end portion of this course hasn't been my favorite so far and to be honest I think it might a be one of my weaknesses. That being said I'm not going to stop trying to learn the front-end because someday I want to become a self-employed web developer and it would be beneficial to somewhat decent/proficient with front-end development. I have a lot of more I can say about this topic that would be better suited for another post so I'll continue this topic there.

## Mastering the Back-End
I haven't reached the back-end development portion of this course yet but I would have to assume it will be more logical than front-end development. I hear that back-end development is completely different than the fron-end and that if I don't enjoy the front-end I should enjoy the back-end and I hope that is true.

## Mastering Problem Solving
Problem-solving is something I really want to get better at and end up mastering because being able to problem solve is an invaluable tool to have as a developer. Being able to effectively problem solve helps you to fix problems with your code yourself which goes hand-in-hand with debugging and solving issues that clients might have or create a web app that solves a problem that many users have.
