---
layout: post
title: My Recent Realization
---
I wish I could say that I was great at front-end development. I wish I could say that I was awesome working with CSS3 or Bootstrap. I wish I could say that I'm able to make awesomely designed websites sites. I wish I could say that I was adept at all of that but I can't. I just can't grasp it. It is too abstract for me to visualize in my mind what the code for CSS3 or Bootstrap looks like and as a result, I have a hard time coding it to where it looks great on the screen.

I came to this realization last night when I was working on this portfolio. I purchased a [portfolio theme](http://wrapbootstrap.com/preview/WB0RS1K89), that looked great, a friend and fellow bloc student sent me a link to. I created a new Git branch and replaced my Jekyll portfolio with the theme I just purchased so I could test it out without completely doing away with this current profile and theme just in case it didn't work out. I thought it would be as easy as just transferring my content over from my Jekyll portfolio to this one. I was wrong.

What I thought was going to take an hour turned into several hours. The first issue was trying to configure Bootstrap. When it comes to Bootstrap I can eventually get a layout looking ok but it takes hours and a lot of luck but last night it wasn't happening. Every time I think I understand Bootstrap's grid layout I find out that I don't understand it. The main problem, as I mentioned above, is that I'm unable to visualize it in my mind. The trouble started when I was trying to set up contact form down at the bottom of the page, placed inside the laptop screen, using my [Simple Form](https://getsimpleform.com/) that I'm using on my Jekyll portfolio.

The first thing I did was to refactor the current code using my Simple Form code because to me it seemed like it **should** work but of course, it didn't. For whatever reason, all that accomplished was that the content of my portfolio would disappear if the browser window is full sized and would only appear when in a smaller window. After that I went back to the drawing board and this time I tried just wrapping the individual lines of the Simple Form code in `<div>` tags without the classes and that worked fine but the format was ugly; the input fields were centered, their widths were too small, it didn't look good at all. I tried adding CSS to the input fields other than what the theme already had but that didn't get me anywhere either. After all that I created an extra HTML file just for the contact form to see if that could work but all that did was show me how bad I was at Bootstrap and it's grid layout because I couldn't get anything to look remotely decent.

Now, I'm not saying that I'm giving up on Front-End development completely, I'm just saying that it's a weakness but I can do/will do it when it comes down to it. In coming to this realization I come to another realization and that is that realizing that Front-End Development is a weakness could be considered a strength. I considered the realization of weaknesses a strength and it's not something I'm ashamed off or going to lie about. There are web developers out there that are more suited for Front-End Development, there are some who are more suited for Back-End Development, and there are some that are suited for both!

And remember that's just a post. A web development post, thanks for reading!
